# Bilingual Norms for Spanish Adjectives
Associatied OSF: https://osf.io/3z4qw/

This experiment investigated Spanish/English bilingual's position preference (pre- or post-nominal) for different types of Spanish adjectives.

Background: English follows adjective + noun word order and Spanish mostly follows noun + adjective word order. However, Spanish adjectives can be grouped into types based on where they occur in a sentence in relation to the modified noun, and whether or not the adjective changes meaning based on it's location (Zagona, 2002). These adjective types can be described as followed: pre-nominal: adjectives that must go before the noun; post-nominal: adjectives that must go after the noun; change: adjectives that can go either before or after the noun and change meaning based on their location; and no change: adjectives that can go either before or after the noun and do not change meaning based on their location. However, these categories are likely based on monolingual Spanish usage, so it is unclear if these categories are representative of how Spanish/English bilinguals use and understand Spanish adjectives. This experiment aims to understand how Spanish/English bilinguals use and understand Spanish adjectives, and further, to determine which adjectives should be used in bilingual language stimuli.

Method: Fourty self-identifying bilinguals were recruited from El Paso, TX rated 80 Spanish sentences on a scale of 1 (bad) to 7 (good). Sentences varied in the type of adjective (pre-nominal, post-nominal, change, or no change) and the word order (adjective + noun or noun + adjective) in a within-subjects design. Each participant saw all adjectives in both a pre- and post-nominal position but in different sentences. Change adjectives were excluded if they did not make sense in both word orders. Two subjects did not complete the experiment, resulting in a final sample size of 38.

Results and Conclusions: Bilingual's ratings reflected the pre-determined adjective categories, where pre-nominal adjectives were preferred before the noun, t(37)=11.81, p<.001, and post-nominal adjectives were preferred after the noun, t(37)=-7.14, p<.001. Change adjectives were preferred before the noun, t(37)=3.14, p<.01, and no change adjectives were preferred after the noun, t(37)=-7.13, p<.001. These results indicate that the adjective types outlined in Zagona (2002) are generally an accurate representation of bilingual adjective usage. They also indicate that while no change adjectives can appear either before or after the noun, they are strongly preferred after the noun, on par with the mandatory post-nominal adjectives. Change adjectives may be preferred before the noun because this is the more 'marked' case of adjective usage and has a more restrictive definition (ex. mi amigo pobre (N+Adj) = my financially poor friend, while mi pobre amigo (Adj+N) = my pitiable friend). This type of adjective saw the smallest mean difference between word orders (mean difference= 0.39). Together with the adjective classifications, these norms help clarify usage of Spanish adjectives and the variability of adjectives within the classes, and can help guide stimuli creation for experiments involving Spanish adjectives. For example, to maximize the degree of opposing word orders between Spanish and English, post-nominal and no change adjectives should be used.

The mean rating by position for each adjective is listed in the "item_means.csv" file.
